---
layout: archive
title: "Bio"
permalink: /bio/
author_profile: true
---


Dr.-Ing. Grigore Stamatescu is Professor in the Department of Automation and Industrial Informatics at the Faculty of Automatic Control and Computers, University „Politehnica” of Bucharest, Romania. He obtained his PhD degree in 2012 from the same university with a thesis on reliable wireless sensor networks for improving quality of life. This was followed by postdoctoral studies in the field of data aggregation and data fusion for multi-sensory intelligent environments. In 2015-2016 he was a Fulbright Visiting Scholar at the University of California, Merced, working on control and optimisation algorithms for building energy management. During 2019 he was a Visiting Research Scientist at the Complexity Science Hub and the Technical University of Graz, Austria, supported by a grant of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. 

His current research interests span the areas of networked embedded sensing, the internet of things and distributed information processing in industry and energy applications. In relation to his activity, he received two best paper awards, the latest at IEEE CODIT 2018 for a paper on „Wireless Sensor Network Architecture for Fog Computing”, and has been involved in multiple research and technology transfer projects, including collaborations with industry partners on control and information system design for cyber-physical energy systems. Recent projects as partner lead include „Cyber-Physical Platform for Application Development and Training in the Process Industries” – PRO-CPS and „“rEsilient and seLf-healed EleCTRical pOwer Nanogrid” – ELECTRON as well as the Erasmus+ Capacity Building project „Master of Engineering in Internet of Things”. He maintains collaborations with IT companies for consulting for r&d projects in the field of data analysis and modelling, proof-of-concept algorithm implementation, applied research reports and training. Dr. Stamatescu has published over 130 articles in international journals and conference proceedings and he is an active member of the scientific community as reviewer, committee member as well as expert for several national (UEFISCDI) and european programs (COST, DG-REGIO, MCST). He is the organising committee co-chair of the yearly IEEE International Workshop on Systems Safety and Security (2013-2021) and editor of the Springer volume „Recent Advances in Systems Safety and Security” in the series Studies in Systems, Decision and Control. He served as the general chair of the 9th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Data Acquisition and Advanced Computing Systems: Technology and Applications – IDAACS’2017 Bucharest and he periodically coordinates special issues in leading journals such as „Complex Data Processing Systems and Computing Algorithms”, Sensors, 2021. 

Grigore Stamatescu is senior member of IEEE, currently serving as the Romania Section Secretary and Robotics and Automation Society (RAS) chapter chair and formerly as Young Professionals (YP) Affinity Group chair. He is also member of the ACM, the Romanian Society of Automation and Technical Informatics (SRAIT), the Romanian Society of Robotics (SRR) and the IFAC TC 3.3. Telematics: Control via Communication Networks.
